 Today, I'm sitting now with Peter Steinberger, the creator of OpenClaw, the OpenSource personal AI agent that has completely taken over the internet.  The get-up repo exploded to over 160,000 stars practically overnight.  The community has spilled countless projects like maltbook, where bots talk among themselves.  And now, the bots are even renting humans to do tasks in the real world.  In our conversation, we discuss his aha moment, his contrarian development philosophies,  and what this means for builders in 2026. Let's dive in.  So good to see you, man.  Hey, what's up?  So, you've made something people want.  It seems so.  Yeah, OpenClaw, as it's called now, has...  Name number five, yeah.  It's been absolutely exploding the internet.  How have the past one or two weeks been for you, man?  Oh, my God. I need a cave.  I need a week of solid dudes.  You came out of the cave and you want to go back to the cave like a little officer.  It's been absolutely wild.  I don't know how one human can absorb all of that.  I probably need another week just to respond to all my emails.  I got some incredibly cool stuff.  I got some incredibly bad stuff.  But clearly, I hit something that...  Spur up emotions and made people interested and inspired people.  That's very cool.  And a lot of people have been working on AI and even personal assistance.  Like, what is it that made OpenClaw take off?  I think my big difference is that it actually runs on your computer.  Like, everything I saw so far runs in the cloud.  It can do a few things if you run on your computer.  You can do everything, everything.  Right? So that's where you're more powerful.  Yeah.  You can do anything that you can do with the machine.  You can just connect to your oven or your Tesla.  Or your light, your son or my bed.  You can control the temperature of my bed.  The chatchipity can do that.  You gave it all the skills that you have yourself.  I friend told me like, he installed OpenClaw.  And it...  And then it asked him, like, look through my computer and make a narrative over my last year.  And it made this incredibly good narrative.  And he was like, how did you do that?  And then he, the OpenClaw found audio files.  Well, like, every Sunday he was recording stuff.  And OpenClaw found that.  But he didn't even remember about it because it was like,  More than a year ago, right?  So just by being able to search a whole computer,  it can surprise you.  Yeah.  It's also...  You also give it all the data, right?  So it can surprise you in many ways.  And so now you have, you know,  we're even moving from human to bot.  So like interactions that you've been talking about,  to bot interactions, or even like,  bot to other humans where, you know, bots on behalf of you  or in hiring other humans to accomplish tasks, IRL.  Like, what's happening?  I think that's a natural next step.  Like, okay, I'm going to book a restaurant.  My bot will reach out to the restaurant bot and do the negotiation.  Like, because it's more efficient.  Or maybe it's like an old restaurant, so my bot needs to actually get some,  some human work done so that the new one then calls the restaurant,  because they don't like bots.  Or walk there, just then in line.  If you doesn't get a robot for the owner of the bot.  And I mentioned it like, maybe if I have even multiple bots.  Maybe I have like specialists.  One is like, for my private life and one is for like my work stuff.  Maybe one is our relationship bot that gets like I was in between.  I don't know.  We're so early.  There's still so much...  So many things that we haven't really figured out if it actually works.  But I feel we are beyond the timeline now.  It seems like everyone was chasing sort of like the centralized,  called intelligence.  And we have sort of emerged over the past 10 days or so.  It's sort of like the swarm intelligence.  And the community intelligence.  I think that if you look at one human being,  what can one human being actually achieve?  If you think one human being could make an iPhone,  a one human being could go to space.  And once in being would probably just like,  not even be able to like find food.  But as a group, we specialize.  As a larger society, we specialize even more.  So what can we learn from that that we can apply to AI?  We really have like AI that specializes in certain things.  Even though it's generalized intelligence,  what if it actually is also specialized in intelligence?  So I'm not going to be very excited.  Yeah, you kind of like opened a window into the future.  And now a ton of people are kind of like building, building on it,  and have sort of like there a harm moment.  Can you walk me back to when you had your harm moment  and kind of like recount that very moment?  I wanted something like just type stuff,  so my computer would do stuff.  Very simple.  And then I built a version of that in May,  in May, June, that was cool, but wasn't really yet.  And then I built a whole bunch of other stuff.  And kind of like build up my army.  And then in November, I was like,  I wanted this again.  Like I went to the kitchen,  and all I wanted was to check up with my computer  but still do stuff.  Always being finished.  And doing stuff was coding.  You were coding stuff.  Yeah, of course.  Were you coding something else?  Or were you coding the thing itself?  No, no.  That was just like the need.  It was again the end.  And I'm like,  What were you coding at the time?  Were you building?  My God.  This is my GitHub.  It's like 40 projects.  I don't even know.  I think it was summarized.  It's like a little CLI-up where you can give it,  whatever, like a podcast or a hot seed thing like here,  and then it would summarize it.  But it was a suite of slides in the terminal.  Because you can do that now.  Yeah.  You can just do things.  So for the love of the computer,  you kind of started messing with stuff.  Yeah.  You came out of retirement actually, right?  To sort of like mess with AI.  Yeah.  And then increasingly, you were so hooked,  that you wanted to just do it always,  also on the go with the phone.  I mean, the last project I worked  two months on Vipe Tunnel.  To the point where I'd got so good,  that I was catching myself,  I was like coding next to my,  when I was at my friends.  And I was like, I hate to stop this.  This is like too addictive.  And then in November,  my neat came back,  and I started building a cloudbot.  I was called Open Cloud.  And I think very, very in the beginning,  I was like, oh, I rebuilt it again.  But this time I built it even better.  This time when you don't type into a terminal,  you just talk to a friend.  You don't think about compact new sessions,  which folder I'm in, which model I'm in.  I mean, you can, you know,  it says like, I want to leave it open for power users.  But usually you just like, you just talk to a friend.  And the friend is like, this ghost or entity,  whatever you want to call it,  that can control your mouth,  and you keep it, and you can just do stuff.  Yeah.  And when did you have that at home?  And when you were like, well,  this is doing way more things than I actually thought it could.  Literally, I took me one hour  for like the very shitty initial prototype.  It was just a little bit of glue  between like a dependency that connects WhatsApp  and cloth code.  And then I would like call call out code  and get like the string out of cloth code.  It will be slow, but it worked.  But I wanted images,  because, you know, you want pictures.  I want, I want to model the sense of selfies,  or whatever,  and I want to model to create images in me back.  So that took me another few hours.  And then I went to Mara Cash  for birthday party.  And there was like the internet wasn't that good.  You know, WhatsApp works everywhere,  because I don't know.  It's just like text.  So I used it a lot of dresser on,  but as this mean,  like a picture,  and like 20 cities for me,  and it was just so useful.  And it was also really nice about it  because it spoke my language.  You know,  it was a little sassy,  it was like funny.  It was like really pleasant to use.  And then I was walking into  like sending it to voice message.  And I'm like, oh wait,  this can work.  I didn't build that.  And it's like the type indicator,  it's like blinking, blinking, blinking.  10 seconds later,  it just replied to me.  And I'm like,  how in the F did you do that?  And it replied,  yeah,  the mad led it to following.  You sent me a text message,  and there was no file ending.  So I looked at the header.  I found it's open.  So I used FFM back to convert it to wave.  And then I wanted to like,  subscribe,  but didn't have this installed.  But then I looked around and I found this open.  And I just used curl to send it to open.  I got a text back in here.  And then that all in like,  what?  9 seconds.  And you didn't build or anticipate  like any of those specific things.  No, it, you know,  turns out,  because coding models got so good.  Coding is really like,  creative problem solving.  That maps very well back into the real world.  I think there's a,  there's a huge correlation.  They need to be really good at creative problem solving.  And that's a skill that's an abstract skill.  So you can apply to code,  but like to any real world task.  So the model had a other surprise.  It's like a magical file.  I don't know what it is.  I need to solve this.  And it did its best and solved it.  And it was even that clever that it,  it shows not to install the local whisper  because it knows that that would require downloading  a model,  which would take probably a few minutes.  And I'm like,  impatient, you know.  So it,  it really took the most intelligent approach.  And that was kind of like the moment where I'm like,  holy fuck.  Yeah.  That was where I got hooked.  YC's next batch is now taking applications.  Got to start up in you,  apply at ycombinator.com slash apply.  It's never too early and filling out the app  will level up your idea.  Okay.  Back to the video.  And so when computers can just do all these things  that you didn't even anticipate.  You didn't build an app to do that exact thing.  Our app's just going to go away.  I think 80% of them are going away.  Why do I need my fitness pal?  Like my agent already knows  that I'm making bad decisions.  I don't know.  Smash burger something.  And it will already assume that I eat what I like to eat.  If I don't make a comment,  it would just like automatically track it.  Or I make a picture.  And it'll just store it somewhere.  I don't even need to care where.  Right?  And then maybe it improves my,  like as a little bit more cardio in it.  I don't need my fitness app  because it just, it just starts the fitness planning for me.  Why don't need it to do app?  I just tell you, hey, remind me of this and this.  And the next day it will just remind me of this and this.  Do I care where it's stored?  No, it just does it's saying.  So there's a,  every app that basically just  manages data,  could be managed in a better way.  And it's in a more natural way by agent.  Yeah.  Only the apps that actually have sensors.  Maybe it is alive.  And so if, you know,  most apps are going to go away.  And that scenario are the models.  The only remaining sort of apps.  Not everything will go away.  But yeah, I think that the large model companies have some big mode.  Because they ultimately,  they give the token.  And turns out,  one of the complaints was that  people use so much token.  No, you just really love using it.  That's why you use this thing so much,  because that's why you burn the token.  It's like, is it my fault?  That I make something that's so popular.  And so, you know, like, all the models,  they're kind of like leapfrogging each other constantly.  And, and, you know,  maybe they're also getting commoditized.  So if apps are going to go away,  models are going to get commoditized.  So at least, you know,  the lobster can,  like the brain is,  is swappable out.  What's this thing that remains?  Where's the value?  Is it the store of memory?  Is it the harness that's valuable?  What is, what remains?  First of all, I don't think  the model companies always have a mode.  And because you see this already,  a new model comes out.  People are like, oh, my God, this is so good.  And they're like, a month later,  it degraded.  It's not good anymore.  They're like quantized it.  No, they didn't do anything.  You just adapted to the new standard.  And now your expectations went up,  but the model is still the average.  So I think for quite a while,  every time a new world releases,  and he just say,  people love it,  and then it's the standard.  And then what's done there,  you don't even think about it anymore.  So we have like open-source stuff  that's as good as the current models from a year ago.  Everybody's hating it, complaining,  oh, this is not good.  It's not funny.  Yeah, this was what we had.  And like in the year,  we'll have this open-source.  And then we're like, we're complain about this  because we are used to this.  So the foreseeable future,  the big companies still have milk.  Harness wise, it's going to be interesting.  Because every company kind of has their own,  their own silo, right?  There's no way,  maybe there's for Europeans,  to actually get the memories out of Chetchipiti.  I don't, I'm not aware.  You know, there's no way,  definitely there's no way for different company  to get your memories out.  So if, if I was like a company  who like provides Chet services,  you could use me  but then I couldn't access the memories.  So like the companies try to like,  bound you to that data silo,  and the beauty of open-claw is it kind of claws  into the data,  because at the end user,  the end user needs access.  Because it's in the end,  otherwise it wouldn't work, right?  If the end user access,  I can access the data.  And you own the memories.  It's just a bunch of Markdown files on your machine.  I mean, I don't own the memories of that.  Yeah, everyone owns their own memories  as a bunch of Markdown files on their own machines.  And to be honest,  those are probably super sensible  because let's be honest,  people use their agent,  not just for problems solving,  but also for like personal problems.  Very quickly, super quickly.  I mean, I, I fully do that.  I'm like, there's a memory stuff that,  I don't want to have leaked.  Yeah, what do you rather,  sort of like not show your Google search history  at this point, or your, you know, memory.md files?  What's, what's the Google word?  Yeah, people still using Google.  I built this.  And I was so excited,  but on Twitter, people wouldn't get it.  Yeah.  Like, I was failing to explain the awesomeness.  I feel like it needs to be experienced.  So, I tried various things,  and I couldn't, I couldn't nail the,  I couldn't nail the explaining.  So I was like, let's do something really crazy.  I just created a discord,  and I just put my bot,  without any security restrictions in the public discord.  And then people came in and the interacted with it,  and they saw me build the software with it,  and they tried to prompt injected and hack it,  and my agent would be laughing at them.  And you just had it locked down to your user ID,  so you don't want to listen to you?  Yeah, yeah.  That, and it was, I mean,  that other people dangerous,  only, only listen to me,  but respond to everyone.  And this prompt was in,  where was the stored, the instructions?  Um, that's actually part of OpenCloitself.  Very much so that, that's part of the system prompt.  Okay, you and I, that explains to you,  you and discord, there's like public people there,  but you only listen to your owner.  I like your human.  I don't even know how I wrote it.  Yeah, yeah.  Your god.  And I kept,  I don't know what I did,  but my system was built very organically.  Like at some point I created like an identity.md,  sold.md like various files,  and then only in, in January I started making it  so other people could install it easier.  And I remember,  I built all these templates,  based on like, go check a rough look at what I have  and make like templates and codex wrote it,  and what came out was like,  bread.  You know, like people joke that codex feels like bread.  Even though not,  they have a new friendly of voice.  I haven't tried it yet.  Yeah.  But the new bots,  they felt so boring compared to what I had.  So I was like,  multi.  Infuse the template.  Multi is the name of your personal.  Yeah, it's a new name because.  Yeah.  Uh, there was some naming challenges.  Yeah.  So you're talking to multi.  Yeah.  I was like, infuse the templates with your character.  And you change the templates.  And then like,  all the things that came out afterwards were like,  actually funny.  Not as funny as mine.  So like I kept some secret.  And the one file that's an open source is like,  my soul.  So even though my bot is in public discord,  so far nobody correct that one file.  Tell me more about soul.md.  I just saw this research from a traffic about where they.  Now I think it's public.  But like a few months ago,  it was like where somebody X.  Randomly found out some text that's hidden in the weights,  where the model couldn't really remember that it learned it.  But it was like ingrained in the weights about the.  Not a quality constitution.  And I found it incredibly fascinating.  And I talked about it with my agent.  And then we created a soul that I'm deep.  It's like.  The core values.  Like how do we want.  Human AI interaction.  What's important to me.  What's important to the model.  Some parts is a little bit like mum would jumble.  And some parts is like I think actually really valuable  in terms of how the model reacts.  And response to text and makes it feel very natural.  In terms of building open claw.  You're also going to take a little bit of a contrarian view  at sometimes like which model you like for coding,  which one you like to run your bot on.  And then also like how you actually like, you know,  code.  Worked trees get worked trees have kind of been popular thing.  There's more and more tools embracing them.  But you're just like, you know, no work trees.  Just multiple checkouts of the repo and like parallel,  you know, terminal windows.  Tell me more about how you build.  And actually the whole world does cloud code.  And I don't think I could have built a single cloud code.  Like I love codex because it looks through way more files  before it decides what to change.  You don't need to do so much trade to get a good output.  If you're skilled, skilled driver, sometimes you can say,  you can get reasonably good output with any tool.  But codex is just, it's just really brilliant.  It is incredibly slow.  So sometimes I use like 10 at the same time.  Like maybe six on that screen and two there and two there.  And I don't like, this is a really a lot of complexity in my head.  There's a lot of jumping.  So I try to minimize anything else that is complexity.  So in my head main is always shipable.  I just have multiple copies of the same repository that are all on main.  So I don't have to deal with how do I name that branch.  There could be like conflicts on naming.  I cannot go back.  There are certain restrictions when you use work trees that I don't need to care about  different copies.  I don't like to use a UI because that's again just added complexity.  Like the simpler and less friction I have all I care about is like sinking and text.  Yeah.  I don't necessarily need to see so much code.  I mostly see it like flying by.  Sometimes there's like, not really stuff that I want to take a look.  But in most cases, if you clearly understand the design and sink it through and discuss it with your agent, it's fine.  I'm also very happy that I didn't even build an MCP support.  So open cloud is very successful and there's no MCP support in there.  This is small esterics.  I build a skill that uses make portar, which is one of my tools to convert MCPs into CLIs.  And then you can just use any MCPS CLI.  But I totally skip the whole classical MCP crap.  Because you can actually, if you need to, you can use MCPs on the fly.  You don't have to restart unlike codex or cloud code, where you actually have to restart the whole thing.  I think it's a way more elegant.  And there's the scales we better.  Now you see entropic, they do...  It does like a tool called search feature, like something super custom for MCPs.  That was like in beta because it's like, so gnarly.  Now just have to realize.  But really, it's good at unix.  You can have as many as you want and just works.  So I'm very happy that I just got very little complaints about the MCP stuff.  It's kind of back to you're just giving it the same tool that humans liked to use.  Yeah.  And not invent it stuff for bots per se.  Yeah.  Humans know and say new and tries to call MCP manually.  Yeah, usually use CLIs.  Yeah.  That's the future.  I'm here for it.  Thank you so much for making the time to say it now.  It's been a huge inspiration too.  So when we were texting, you know, the course of the past couple of years.  And I saw you getting back into the game.  And I was like, Peter, like, would you're telling me, like, chase that dragon?  You were doing like, the weird, like, vibe tunnel thing, et cetera.  Nobody was having intention.  And so I'm just like, beyond, you know, stoked to see, you know, it's happening.  And of course, it had to be, sort of like, a loner from some, like, tiny country,  like far away from Silicon Valley.  It's like, you know, bring all of this upon us.  So a huge inspiration.  I'm here for it.  Thank you.  Awesome. 