 I'm going to explain as simple as possible what an earth open claws and don't worry.  I'm not here to hype you up.  I'm not here to give you a bunch of developer jargon.  I'm going to explain this in plain English, whether or not you should even care this exist  or this is just a bunch of nerd stuff.  Let's jump in.  Welcome back here.  Let's learn about this little lobster right here.  The lobster open claw.  Why is it called open claw Corbin?  Because it used to be called clawed bottom moped bot.  What happened Corbin?  Because the theropic was like, yo, stop using our branding and then they switched up.  They realized moped bot was a trash name.  So they switched to open claw.  TLDR of what on earth open claw even is put simply it is drum roll.  Please drum roll.  Please a 24 seven AI assistant.  Now in the surface, that sounds extremely lame and it sounds like we've done this before.  But in reality, there is a little nuance here.  If you use chat GBT, if you use cloud, if you use Gemini, you know how it's like you give input  and then you get feedback and it's like a chat system like texting your friend like, hey,  what's up?  And then you expect a response and then not to leave you on red like that situation.  What open claw can do is we can actually set up a system where it's autonomous.  Of course, essentially, it runs 24 seven based off original task or its own quote unquote  soul.  Don't make it complex, y'all.  Basically, what a soul is in this context like S O U L is how it behaves and interacts with  its environment.  For example, you probably have a soul or do you have a personality that's your soul.  I'm not going to get too spiritual on y'all.  Just think of it like how it behaves, okay?  So as we know of these kind of trends, like people just blow this up and they don't even  know what they're talking about.  And they're like, oh my gosh, have you not used open claw yet?  You're falling behind.  I genuinely think you're not.  And to be honest with you, I really only see one use case, but let's just take like a very  high ceiling look of how we even use this tech.  Am I going to make a video of like showing you how to set up open claw possibly?  But as you see in the space, there's like thousands of tech youtubers now that can show  you how to do that.  I'm here to give you a high level of like, do I even want to entertain this?  So first things first is open source, which literally means it's free.  I know it's kind of weird.  Us software developers were nerds.  We just give stuff for free because we think it's cool.  We iterate off of it, but there's two ways you can use this tech, local, which literally  means on your machine.  And when I say on your machine, I mean the laptop, the desktop, like all that, what you  paid for, like that MacBook, the windows, whatever you paid for, like that, it can run on it.  If you do a local LLM, local LLM, simply a model that only expands electricity that can  run on your machine.  I'll explain that a little bit more if that's not a confusing point is that you can either  run this on your computer, which side knows why the most powerful use case or alternatively  in the cloud.  So here's a situation, though, it's a 24 7 assistant, which means it can do things we  seen in the past.  What are things we've seen in the past, Corbin?  Oh my gosh.  Oh my gosh.  Did you know that open clock and look at your emails?  Did you know that you could text open claw in telegram and like have a conversation with  an AI model?  Go back and forth.  So cool.  I don't care.  And I say that not to sound harsh, but I say that because this is we could have already  done this.  We could have already done all this.  So who cares?  Like it can look at your email.  It can respond to your email.  This tech existed.  That's not why I care about open claw.  So in reality, if you plan on using open claw for that kind of stuff, lock in.  There's other ways to do it, but you can still do it, I guess.  Like maybe long term, it has a use case, but to be honest with you, it is what it is in  that situation.  Like, oh, great.  You have a telegram bot.  Oh, that telegram bot.  And then access your emails.  Like we could have done this already.  So therefore when setting up open claw, you have the ability to set up in the cloud.  Should you set it up in the cloud?  If you have no development or technical experience, I would advise no, but who cares?  Do whatever you want to do in life.  Go smoke weed.  Go drink.  Just do whatever you want to do in life.  I'm telling you, from a software engineer's perspective, you probably don't want to do  this.  You're going to get a lot of tutorials like, hey, set up your clawed bots, or sorry, the  open claw in the cloud.  The reason you don't do this, if you have no software development experience, is because  the fact that this is extremely unsecure and one very specific pain point that I saw happening,  which I'm like, that is sneaky.  You can set up your open claw in the cloud.  And then if you gave it access to your emails, the emails, someone literally fished a person  that had open claw access to their emails.  And what I mean by that is that, okay, so this little AI bot has access to all your emails.  Email, email, email, email.  When an email comes in, this AI model can read the email and then interact with the email  if you give access to it and then respond to the email.  Well, what happens when that email quite literally is a, what we call a prompt injection,  where it could take control of your computer or alternatively more likely, take control of  your inbox, delete your inbox like a bunch of crazy stuff.  Now, is this a fringe case?  Is this almost like fraud or something like that?  Yeah, like in reality, most people probably won't even know your email or even know your  open claw exist.  But the point being is that there is risk associated when running this in the cloud.  Who cares?  Risk is life.  Do it.  Like, I'm not here to tell you not to do it.  I'm just telling you that this is real.  This is risk.  You have to ask yourself, why is open claw now existing?  Why is it open source?  Why has no other big tech company ever released a product like this?  Um, because of the legal implications.  Think about it.  I'm giving you a 24 seven AI assistant and I've even got into the very, very cool stuff  about this assistant, which is you can quite literally give it access to your entire computer,  do things like screen record, do things like take images, do things like code, do things  like this can literally be you on your computer.  That's cool.  Why hasn't this been done before?  Because you really think some company like Anthropics is going to deal with the legal implications  of literally getting access to your entire private information and doing stuff with it.  I mean, they probably want to do that a little bit with the cloud bot, right?  Where you're just like chatting with it, but the point is that there are certain lines  that big companies will cross.  That is why a innovative thing like open claw that happened now happened through open source  because ended a day, the onus of risk is on you.  So if you want to be dumb and set this up in a way that you could really cook yourself  proceed, but we'll jump into how to set this up if you actually want to use it in a secure  way.  Let me go over a use case.  That's a real use case of this so that can give a little bit more clarification of why  you should use this.  So I think the powerful reason you use open claw is using it locally.  What I mean by that is that this unlocked a very big thing in the space, which allows  for the ability to run 24.7 now in theory, you could run 24.7 using the cloud and I don't  care.  I want to run this locally.  The reason running a model locally is so advantageous is because the cost is next to  nothing.  And why is it when I run an AI model locally on my computer, I don't have to have the internet  to talk to it.  Why is it next to zero?  Because all you're paying for is the electricity, literally the electricity to connect your  laptop or desktop.  That's all you're paying for.  When you use services like cloud and chat, GBT that aren't open source and you're hating  their back end, that's why it costs so much because they are premium charging you for them  to run that model.  It's literally hardware connecting to you and they get paid.  There's a whole other rabbit hole I could go down to where stuff's going to get a little  crazy when it comes to the open source world where open source models are becoming better  than the paid models.  But the point being, this is where open claw is going to excel local.  Let me caveat real quick, before I jump into this little local situation because this  is honestly the coolest part of open claw for me personally and where I see the real use  case actually happening.  But you know those posts like, oh, I bought a Mac studio, there's some, there's some value  there.  But if you're buying a Mac studio, just to read your emails, what are you doing?  I guess you could.  It's all levels to this.  Okay, y'all?  I think in reality, most people what they say they can do now and oh my gosh, this is a breakthrough  you could have already done it.  So let me just go over the stuff that you can't have done before open claw, which is a thing  called a Damon.  Now this is a Greek term that's used in software development, which basically means a software  program or application or operation that is always running on your computer.  A great way to think about this is your brain.  It's always running whether you're asleep, whether you're awake, whether you're watching  this video, always running.  This is insanely cool.  Also, it comes from Greek Damon because it's like a spirit.  Oh my gosh, the spirit is always moving around like the Greeks are crazy.  I love Greeks 24 or 7 Damon.  This is awesome.  So what this is who it's simply in this context is an AI model that's always operationally on.  Now this only really has real value.  If the model is local on your computer, because as we said earlier, it is cost you zero dollars.  Now what is a real use case of this?  It's probably a time, but the real use case I'm finding myself realizing and testing still  is something I want to call aries.  So what aries is is a fork of open claw.  What is a fork Corbin?  You know what cursor is like you know the app builder cursor and then you know there was another  app builder that was open source called VS code.  So what cursor did in the early days is they literally just took all that open source code,  duplicated it and called it cursor and then added layers.  That's all I'm doing here.  I'm taking the infrastructure of open claw and I'm adding layers and I'm calling it aries.  What are those layers and where is the value that I personally see when it comes to this  tech software development?  The aries is a real test and aries is something I need to see if it actually works because if  it does it's cooked.  The point of aries is taking the tech found up here a 24 seven Damon or just a model that's  always on and having a create real software.  This is a real use case by open claw that wasn't possible before open claw because now we  can quite literally create local AI models that communicate with each other forever and  ever.  Until you you couldn't theory just unplug I unplugged you and then it's off right but  open claw created a system now where you can essentially have AI models talk to AI models  and therefore planning can occur execution can occur and a bunch of implications is behind  that aries itself I'll do a deeper video if it actually works I have a little article here  it's nice nice and beautiful if you're familiar for me if you know this channel I don't like  doing videos like oh my gosh open claws here make 100K in a month 10 step guide pay me a hundred  dollars like I don't care I'm here to really give you real perspective from a real  software engineer so what I'm telling you is that I'm not going to jump the gun I'm not  going to say oh my gosh I created aGI I don't care I'm going to do tests on aries so I had to buy  a max studio which was like nine grand which had 512 gigs of RAM in order for me to do these tests  to put simply the tests are going to prove whether or not AI models can create real software  and not in the sense of like vibe coding I'm saying they can create real software with no user input  you like I don't need to be there I just give you a essentially a plan build xyz and it handles  everything from there and out and it goes 24 7 7 days a week 30 days a month 28 on February type  of situation so what does this mean for you if you're like Corbin I want to use this for my business  there's potential here but this is so early stages that it's going to require you to do a lot  of experimenting a lot of iterating so I suggest you if you like that kind of thing like this actually  is cool to you yeah by a local environment like a very popular one is like people buying max  studios buy whatever your equivalent is point being is that the local environment is where open  claw is going to excel the cloud yeah you could do it but it opens you up to more security risk it  opens you up to more cost because now you got to pay for stuff like the cloud is I really just I'm  looking at the cloud like this is the old way if you really want to build a 24 7 AI assistant that  functionally works and acts like an AI assistant and you're not paying a gazillion dollars just to  keep hitting the anthropic API endpoint local is the way I last note to you an open claw TODR open  claw is a 24 7 assistant that actually works and it can actually be autonomous but my suggestion to you  is go local because the cloud is just cooked if areas actually works I am not only going to test it  on a real software thumb you dot com I showed how to build in six hours you can check out this channel  but the real software here's thumb you I'm going to plug areas into thumb you know and then see if it  can handle PR requests see if it can handle building out real features within a real software that  is scaling right now but on top of that I'm going to see if areas can essentially create softwares  from scratch that are real these are questions that need to be answered these are questions I don't  have the answer to yet now if it's too much down the road you look at my acts I'll probably say  what the situation is here but if this genuinely can do what I think it can do based on my test now  and I'm 80% sure it can and I'll leave you with this open claw might have been the inception of software  going to zero in the sense that there's no other way to put it building software isn't going to be  using an app to build software if open claw and these tests are true building software is a system  what I mean by that is the environment itself is sole purpose is to build software no human input no  back and forth no latency areas a fork of open claw you give direction a plan and execution model  and it handles everything if you're a nerd and you want to check out open claw I suggest you do it  it's really fun but that just concludes today's video so as you already know these style videos  make sure you like and I'll see you in the next open claw w or l 